A dull shard of crystalline matter, without attunement to an elemental power. Its surface is cloudy, brittle, and lacks the vibrant hues of an active crystal. Alone, it serves no purpose but as raw material, awaiting restoration or containment.

Easily found in the earth’s crust, often mistaken for common quartz. Excavation with simple pickaxe tools suffices, though you will want to gather as many of them as you can.

I have picked up many of these lifeless shards along forgotten roads. At first, I thought them worthless, a distraction from hunger and cold. Yet, in certain places, shrines long abandoned, you may find plenty of them - and in fulfilled elemental form too.

A book that analyzes knowledge through elemental glass to lend you answers. It contains most of the knowledge needed for progression through the Magician Path, such as the workings of the apparatus to refine elemental power. If I can't answer your question in this travel diary, then perhaps this other source can.

The small element container is the basis for any small elemental system. Most elemental instruments need to be placed on top of a container, such as the elemental extractor. When broken, it will retain most of the element inside. Pipes can be attached to its sides, which then can be toggled  to output element.

To start your proper elemental setup, you will want to either find an elemental source in the wild - floating circles of colour depending on the element - or make use of an element evaporator to evaporate raw or powerful natural shards into elemental power. I would recommend finding a source instead, as it's more reliable. Finding all four sources in one place is miraculous though. Noting down the location of the new sources found is crucial. Then, place down an elemental container two blocks from the source and an extractor right below it to start the extraction process. Beware that these sources are very fragile.

The fire furnace is a powerful version of the regular furnace that, while connected to a fire source, will effectively have infinite fuel. Fire sources are quite tricky to find, however. They are most common in hot biomes and the Nether. You will rarely find them in most places common to man.

The element infuser can enhance almost all of your tools with a special effect depending on the elemental used. However, only one effect can be active at a time per tool or armor piece. It is also used in the crafting of ingredients required for more advanced instruments.

*A drawn note is left on the entry*

//

Drenched Ingot
A regular ingot with a watery texture, exhibiting the element of water, an essential material. They are manufactured through infusing regular iron ingots with water.

Warpstone
The warpstone is an utility item, letting you travel to any waystone regardless of where you are situated. This however comes at a price: experience levels, increasing with the distance. In case of emergencies, you may return to a safe space quickly. This is not an absolute escape plan though. I recall a time while fighting a sea monster, I was unable to trigger the waystone while drowning.

Waystone
The waystone makes uses of a warpstone to create a relay point in a stabilized location. This mean long-distance travel no longer requires experience. Once upon a time, they were common in every village, even being found randomly in the middle of forests or deserts, probably leftover structures.

Element Binder

Element Container T2

Springaline Shard

Shrine

Solar Condenser

Gem crystallizer

Spell Table

Spell focus

grimoire

pure infuser 

pure crystal

movement plate 

ore purifier 

firite

source breeder 

jewel